[Abstract]

The Payroll System project is a fully ajax enabled web application which is developed to solve the 
manual payroll system. The system is very useful for the payroll transaction. It can ease the work for 
payroll administrator, and the system is systematic compared to the manual system. The Payroll System can 
solve many problems faced by the payroll administrator, such as the calculation of each employee's salary 
will be calculated by the system. In addition, it can improve the time efficiency, provide a user friendly 
environment, and it is paperless. From the Payroll System, it also improves the payroll administrator's 
work performance. Furthermore, it provides shorter time for information reftrieval and easier way to 
maintain the payroll detail. The system can control all the payroll transactions by protecting the data 
from being accessed by unauthorized user. The system also has the function to print the pay slips and 
various charts. Moreover, the system can automatically calculate the salary and user friendly. Besides, 
it has the function to maintain employee information, backup data, search, and keep history record. 
The employee can update their own details, and view/print their latest salary details without having to 
get from the payroll administrator. Payroll administrator also can control the user authority where only 
certain users have access rights to access the system.
The methodology that used in the Payroll System is Software Prototyping technique. 
The Software Prototyping technique refers to the activity of creating prototypes of software applications. 
A prototype typically simulates only a few aspects of, and may be completely different from the final 
product. The process of prototyping involves the following steps, which are identify basic requirements, 
develop initial prototype, review, and revise and enhance the prototype.
The scope for the Payroll System will be divided into two main categories, monthly type salary (with 
overtime rates), and hourly type salary, which paid by hours worked (with hourly rate).
As the conclusion, it has many advantages for payroll administrator and the employee
by using the Payroll System.

[1. Intoduction]

The Payroll System is very important for the companies or industries where it can ease the work for 
payroll administrator, and the system is systematic compared to the manual system.
Therefore, the Payroll System is developed to solve the problems exist in manual system.
The Payroll System has many functions where it is very useful for both payroll administrator and the
employee. The main function for the Payroll System is it can help the payroll administrator to calculate
the salary and print the pay slips. In addition, the Payroll System also has functions to save, update, and
delete employee information. Payroll administrator can backup the database to avoid any data missing from the system.
Besides, the Payroll System also has the functionality to allow both payroll administrator and employee to 
view overtime charts, toal hours worked chart, and hourly payroll chart. Furthermore, the Payroll System
has the user authority function to make the system more secure.

[2. Significance of the project]


[3. Problem Statement]
Manual payroll system calculates the employee's salary entirely on paper. If the system is not systematic,
searching for particular employee detail is very difficult. In addition, the pay slips for the employee
will have to be manually generated. This problem will increase the amount of time to process the payroll 
transaction. Besides, it is very easy to make mistakes when processing payroll transaction manually,
especially mistakes in taxing, which can be very costly.
Furthermore, if the detail of the employee is kept on document, the document maybe seen by other people.
All of this problem can be a burden for the payroll administrator due to the amount of manual works to be 
done by the payroll administrator before the pay slips can be given to employee.
In order to solve the manual payroll system, a computerized payroll system is essential.
Some suggestion has been made to solve the problem that faced by the payroll administrator.
For example, a user has to enter their username and password in order to access the system.
This will make the system more secure. The payroll administrator also can control the user authority
to make sure the data is secure and only can be accessed by the authorized user.
Moreover the chances of mistakes is lower because all the calculation is done by the system itself.
The data is kept in a systematic way where it allows data to be searched. For example, payroll administrator
can search by employee id, employee name, and others. The pay slips for employee will also automatically 
generated by the system with a mouse click. Payroll administrator can print out the pay slips anytime they
want, and the pay slips will display all the details for the calculation of employee's salary.
Data modifications is also easy because it can be done with just a mouse click.


[5. Limitations]
